README.md, before:

# @openinc/parse-server-ldap

## Installation

```
npm i @openinc/parse-server-ldap
```

## Usage

In your Cloud Code entry file:

```js
const initLDAP = require("@openinc/parse-server-ldap");

initLDAP(Parse);
```

## Configuration

Configuration is done using environment variables:

- `PARSE_LDAP_ACTIVE` (default: "true") can be set to `"false"` to disable the plugin.
- `PARSE_LDAP_FUNCTION_NAME` (default: "ldap_login") will be passed to `Parse.Cloud.define(PARSE_LDAP_FUNCTION_NAME)`

- `PARSE_LDAP_URL` (default: "ldap://127.0.0.1:389") should be set to the LDAP server connection URL
- `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH` should be set to a base path, i.e.: `"dc=example,dc=com"`
- `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_BIND_DN` must be set to a DN which will identify the user, i.e.: `"uid=%user%,ou=Users,%basepath%"`.
  - `%user%` will be replaced by the username the user is providing to the Cloud Code Function
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`

After binding the user, the user profile will be searched. This is done by using `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_BIND_DN`. If this will not work for you, you can search for the user within a DN with a given filter:

- `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_SEARCH_DN`
  - `%user%` will be replaced by the username the user is providing to the Cloud Code Function
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`
- `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_SEARCH_FILTER`

  - `%user%` will be replaced by the username the user is providing to the Cloud Code Function
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`

You can change which attributes will be used:

- `PARSE_LDAP_DN_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "dn") the attribute of the LDAP user, which will be used for the Parse user attribute, which will be defined with `PARSE_LDAP_PARSE_LDAP_DN_ATTRIBUTE`
- `PARSE_LDAP_USERNAME_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "uid") the attribute of the LDAP user, which will be used for the Parse user `username` attribute
- `PARSE_LDAP_EMAIL_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "mail") the attribute of the LDAP user, which will be used for the Parse user `email` attribute
- `PARSE_LDAP_NAME_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "cn") the attribute of the LDAP user, which will be used for the Parse user `name` attribute

- `PARSE_LDAP_PARSE_LDAP_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "ldap") can be used to set the Parse user attribute, which will be used to identify users as LDAP users.
- `PARSE_LDAP_PARSE_LDAP_DN_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "ldap_dn") can be used to set the Parse user attribute, which will store the DN of the users.

Optionally you can set a LDAP group to restrict, which users will be allowed to sign into Parse:

- `PARSE_LDAP_SERVICE_GROUP_DN` can be used to pass a DN to a group. Only users whos DN is in a `member` attribute of that group can login. Reading the group requires a service user..
- `PARSE_LDAP_SERVICE_USER_DN` DN for the service user
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`
- `PARSE_LDAP_SERVICE_USER_PW` PW for the service user
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`
- `PARSE_LDAP_SERVICE_INTERVAL` can be used to pass a number in milliseconds, which will be used to start an interval in which all Parse users coming from LDAP will be validated as active LDAP users.

Commit message:

Add env var PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_STRIP_AD_DOMAIN

README.md, after:

# @openinc/parse-server-ldap

## Installation

```
npm i @openinc/parse-server-ldap
```

## Usage

In your Cloud Code entry file:

```js
const initLDAP = require("@openinc/parse-server-ldap");

initLDAP(Parse);
```

## Configuration

Configuration is done using environment variables:

- `PARSE_LDAP_ACTIVE` (default: "true") can be set to `"false"` to disable the plugin.
- `PARSE_LDAP_FUNCTION_NAME` (default: "ldap_login") will be passed to `Parse.Cloud.define(PARSE_LDAP_FUNCTION_NAME)`
- `PARSE_LDAP_URL` (default: "ldap://127.0.0.1:389") should be set to the LDAP server connection URL
- `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH` should be set to a base path, i.e.: `"dc=example,dc=com"`
- `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_BIND_DN` must be set to a DN which will identify the user, i.e.: `"uid=%user%,ou=Users,%basepath%"`.
  - `%user%` will be replaced by the username the user is providing to the Cloud Code Function
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`
- `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_STRIP_AD_DOMAIN` (default: "false") can be set to `"true"` to strip the domain part of the login, i.e.: `domain.com\username` will become `username`

After binding the user, the user profile will be searched. This is done by using `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_BIND_DN`. If this will not work for you, you can search for the user within a DN with a given filter:

- `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_SEARCH_DN`
  - `%user%` will be replaced by the username the user is providing to the Cloud Code Function
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`
- `PARSE_LDAP_LOGIN_SEARCH_FILTER`
  - `%user%` will be replaced by the username the user is providing to the Cloud Code Function

You can change which attributes from LDAP and which attributes in Parse will be used:

- `PARSE_LDAP_DN_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "dn") the attribute of the LDAP user, which will be used for the Parse user attribute, which will be defined with `PARSE_LDAP_PARSE_LDAP_DN_ATTRIBUTE`
- `PARSE_LDAP_USERNAME_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "uid") the attribute of the LDAP user, which will be used for the Parse user `username` attribute
- `PARSE_LDAP_EMAIL_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "mail") the attribute of the LDAP user, which will be used for the Parse user `email` attribute
- `PARSE_LDAP_NAME_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "cn") the attribute of the LDAP user, which will be used for the Parse user `name` attribute
- `PARSE_LDAP_PARSE_LDAP_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "ldap") can be used to set the Parse user attribute, which will be used to identify users as LDAP users.
- `PARSE_LDAP_PARSE_LDAP_DN_ATTRIBUTE` (default: "ldap_dn") can be used to set the Parse user attribute, which will store the DN of the users.

Optionally you can set a LDAP group to restrict, which users will be allowed to sign into Parse:

- `PARSE_LDAP_SERVICE_GROUP_DN` can be used to pass a DN to a group. Only users whos DN is in a `member` attribute of that group can login. Reading the group requires a service user..
- `PARSE_LDAP_SERVICE_USER_DN` DN for the service user
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`
- `PARSE_LDAP_SERVICE_USER_PW` PW for the service user
  - `%basepath%` will be replaced by the value of `PARSE_LDAP_BASEPATH`
- `PARSE_LDAP_SERVICE_INTERVAL` can be used to pass a number in milliseconds, which will be used to start an interval in which all Parse users coming from LDAP will be validated as active LDAP users.
